#!/usr/bin/env perl
# Copyright (C) 2017‚Äì2020  Alex Schroeder <alex@gnu.org>

# This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
# the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free
# Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
# later version.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
# ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
# FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Affero General Public License for more
# details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along
# with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=encoding utf8

=head1 Gemini Wiki

This server serves a wiki as a Gemini site.

It does two and a half things:

=over

=item It's a program that you run on a computer and other people connect to it
      using their L<client|https://gemini.circumlunar.space/clients.html> in
      order to read the pages on it.

=item It's a wiki, which means that people can edit the pages without needing an
      account. All they need is a client that speaks both
      L<Gemini|https://gemini.circumlunar.space/> and Titan, and the password.
      The default password is "hello". üòÉ

=item People can also access it using a regular web browser. They'll get a very
      simple, read-only version of the site.

To take a look for yourself, check out the Gemini Test Wiki via the
L<HTTP|https://alexschroeder.ch:1968/> or via
L<gemini|gemini://alexschroeder.ch:1968/>.

=back

=head2 How do you edit a Gemini Wiki?

You need to use a Titan-enabled client.

Known clients:

=over

=item This repository comes with a Perl script called
      L<titan|https://alexschroeder.ch/cgit/gemini-wiki/plain/titan> to upload
      files

=item L<Gemini Write|https://alexschroeder.ch/cgit/gemini-write/> is an
      extension for the Emacs Gopher and Gemini client
      L<Elpher|https://thelambdalab.xyz/elpher/>

=item L<Gemini & Titan for Bash|https://alexschroeder.ch/cgit/gemini-titan/about/>
      are two shell functions that allow you to download and upload files

=back

=head2 What is Titan?

Titan is a companion protocol to Gemini: it allows clients to upload files to
Gemini sites, if servers allow this. On the Gemini Wiki, you can edit "raw"
pages. That is, at the bottom of a page you'll see a link to the "raw" page. If
you follow it, you'll see the page content as plain text. You can submit a
changed version of this text to the same URL using Titan. There is more
information for developers available
L<on Community Wiki|https://communitywiki.org/wiki/Titan>.

=head2 Dependencies

Perl libraries you need to install if you want to run Gemini Wiki:

=over

=item L<Algorithm::Diff>

=item L<File::ReadBackwards>

=item L<File::Slurper>

=item L<Modern::Perl>

=item L<Net::Server>

=item L<URI::Escape>

=back

I'm going to be using F<curl> and F<openssl> in the L</Quickstart> instructions,
so you'll need those tools as well. And finally, when people download their
data, the code calls C<tar>.

On Debian:

    sudo apt install \
      libalgorithm-diff-xs-perl \
      libfile-readbackwards-perl \
      libfile-slurper-perl \
      libmodern-perl-perl \
      libnet-server-perl \
      liburi-escape-xs-perl \
      curl openssl tar

The F<update-readme.pl> script I use to generate F<README.md> also requires
L<Pod::Markdown> and L<Text::Slugify>.

=head2 Quickstart

Right now there aren't any releases. You just get the latest version from the
repository and that's it. I'm going to assume that you're going to create a new
user just to be safe.

    sudo adduser --disabled-login --disabled-password gemini
    sudo su gemini
    cd

Now you're in your home directory, F</home/gemini>. We're going to install
things right here. First, get the source code:

    curl --output gemini-wiki \
      https://alexschroeder.ch/cgit/gemini-wiki/plain/gemini-wiki?h=main

Since Gemini traffic is encrypted, we need to generate a certificate and a key.
These are both stored in PEM files. To create your own copies of these files
(and you should!), use "make cert" if you have a copy of the Makefile. If you
don't, use this:

    openssl req -new -x509 -newkey ec \
    -pkeyopt ec_paramgen_curve:prime256v1 \
    -days 1825 -nodes -out cert.pem -keyout key.pem

This creates a certificate and a private key, both of them unencrypted, using
eliptic curves of a particular kind, valid for five years.

You should have three files, now: F<gemini-wiki>, F<cert.pem>, and
F<key.pem>. That's enough to get started! Start the server:

    perl gemini-wiki

This starts the server in the foreground. Open a second terminal and test it:

    echo gemini://localhost \
      | openssl s_client --quiet --connect localhost:1965 2>/dev/null

You should see a Gemini page starting with the following:

    20 text/gemini; charset=UTF-8
    Welcome to the Gemini version of this wiki.

Success!! üòÄ üöÄüöÄ

Let's create a new page using the Titan protocol, from the command line:

    echo "Welcome to the wiki!" > test.txt
    echo "Please be kind." >> test.txt
    echo "titan://localhost/raw/"`date --iso-8601=date`";mime=text/plain;size="`wc --bytes < test.txt`";token=hello" \
      | cat - test.txt | openssl s_client --quiet --connect localhost:1965 2>/dev/null

You should get a nice redirect message, with an appropriate date.

    30 gemini://localhost:1965/page/2020-06-27

You can check the page, now (replacing the appropriate date):

    echo gemini://localhost:1965/page/2020-06-27 \
      | openssl s_client --quiet --connect localhost:1965 2>/dev/null

You should get back a page that starts as follows:

    20 text/gemini; charset=UTF-8
    Welcome to the wiki!
    Please be kind.

Yay! üòÅüéâ üöÄüöÄ

Let me return to the topic of Titan-enabled clients for a moment. With those,
you can do simple things like this:

    echo "Hello! This is a test!" | titan --url=localhost/test --token=hello

Or this:

    titan --url=localhost/test --token=hello test.txt

That makes it a lot easier to upload new content! üòÖ

If you have a bunch of Gemtext files in a directory, you can upload them all in
one go:

    titan --url=titan://localhost/ --token=hello *.gmi

=head2 Wiki Directory

You home directory should now also contain a wiki directory called F<wiki>. In
it, you'll find a few more files:

=over

=item F<page> is the directory with all the page files in it; each file has the
      C<gmi> extension and should be written in Gemtext format

=item F<index> is a file containing all the files in your F<page> directory for
      quick access; if you create new files in the F<page> directory, you should
      delete the F<index> file ‚Äì it will get regenerated when needed; the format
      is one page name (without the C<.gmi> extension) per line, with lines
      separated from each other by a single C<\n>

=item F<keep> is the directory with all the old revisions of pages in it ‚Äì if
      you've only made one change, then it won't exist, yet; and if you don't
      care about the older revisions, you can delete them; assuming you have a
      page called C<Welcome> and edit it once, you have the current revision as
      F<page/Welcome.gmi>, and the old revision in F<keep/Welcome/1.gmi> (the
      page name turns into a subdirectory and each revision gets an apropriate
      number)

=item F<file> is the directory with all the uploaded files in it ‚Äì if you
      haven't uploaded any files, then it won't exist, yet; you must explicitly
      allow MIME types for upload using the C<--wiki_mime_type> option (see
      I<Options> below)

=item F<meta> is the directory with all the meta data for uploaded files in it ‚Äì
      there should be a file here for every file in the F<file> directory; if
      you create new files in the F<file> directory, you should create a
      matching file here; if you have a file F<file/alex.jpg> you want to create
      a file F<meta/alex.jpg> containing the line C<content-type: image/jpeg>

=item F<changes.log> is a file listing all the pages made to the wiki; if you
      make changes to the files in the F<page> or F<file> directory, they aren't
      going to be listed in this file and thus people will be confused by the
      changes you made ‚Äì your call (but in all fairness, if you're collaborating
      with others you probably shouldn't do this); the format is one change per
      line, with lines separated from each other by a single C<\n>, and each
      line consisting of time stamp, pagename or filename, revision number if a
      page or 0 if a file, and the numeric code of the user making the edit (see
      L</Privacy> below)

=item F<config> probably doesn't exist, yet; it is an optional file containing
      Perl code where you can mess with the code (see L</Configuration> below)

=back

=head2 Options

The Gemini Wiki has a bunch of options, and it uses L<Net::Server> in the
background, which has even more options. Let's try to focus on the options you
might want to use right away.

Here's an example:

    perl gemini-wiki \
      --wiki_token=Elrond \
      --wiki_token=Thranduil \
      --wiki_page=Welcome \
      --wiki_page=About

And here's some documentation:

=over

=item C<--wiki_token> is for the token that users editing pages have to provide;
      the default is "hello"; you can use this option multiple times and give
      different users different passwords, if you want

=item C<--wiki_page> is an extra page to show in the main menu; you can use this
      option multiple times; this is ideal for general items like I<About> or
      I<Contact>

=item C<--wiki_main_page> is the page containing your header for the main page;
      that's were you would put your ASCII art header, your welcome message, and
      so on, see L</Main Page and Title> below

=item C<--wiki_mime_type> is a MIME type to allow for uploads; text/plain is
      always allowed and doesn't need to be listed; you can also just list the
      type without a subtype, eg. C<image> will allow all sorts of images (make
      sure random people can't use your server to exchange images ‚Äì set a
      password using C<--wiki_token>)

=item C<--host> is the hostname to serve; the default is C<localhost> ‚Äì you
      probably want to pick the name of your machine, if it is reachable from
      the Internet; if you use it multiple times, each host gets its own wiki
      space (see C<--wiki_space> below)

=item C<--port> is the port to use; the default is 1965

=item C<--wiki_dir> is the wiki data directory to use; the default is either the
      value of the C<GEMINI_WIKI_DATA_DIR> environment variable, or the "./wiki"
      subdirectory

=item C<--wiki_space> adds an extra space that acts as its own wiki; a
      subdirectory with the same name gets created in your wiki data directory
      and thus you shouldn't name spaces like any of the files and directories
      already there (see L</Wiki Directory>); not that settings such as
      C<--wiki_page> and C<--wiki_main_page> apply to all spaces, but the page
      content will be different for every wiki space

=item C<--cert_file> is the certificate PEM file to use; the default is
      F<cert.pem>

=item C<--key_file> is the private key PEM file to use; the default is
      F<key.pem>

=item C<--log_level> is the log level to use, 0 is quiet, 1 is errors, 2 is
      warnings, 3 is info, and 4 is debug; the default is 2

=back

=head2 Running the Gemini Wiki as a Daemon

If you want to start the Gemini Wiki as a daemon, the following options come in
handy:

=over

=item C<--setsid> makes sure the Gemini Wiki runs as a daemon in the background

=item C<--pid_file> is the file where the process id (pid) gets written once the
      server starts up; this is useful if you run the server in the background
      and you need to kill it

=item C<--log_file> is the file to write logs into; the default is to write log
      output to the standard error (stderr)

=item C<--user> and C<--group> might come in handy if you start the Gemini Wiki
      using a different user

=back

=head2 Using systemd

In this case, we don't want to daemonize the process. Systemd is going to handle
that for us. There's more documentation L<available
online|https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.service.html>.

Basically, this is the template for our service:

    [Unit]
    Description=Gemini Wiki
    After=network.target
    [Service]
    Type=simple
    WorkingDirectory=/home/gemini
    ExecStart=/home/gemini/gemini-wiki
    Restart=always
    User=gemini
    Group=gemini
    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target

Save this as F<gemini-wiki.service>, and then link it:

    sudo ln -s /home/gemini/gemini-wiki.service /etc/systemd/system/

Start it:

    sudo systemctl start gemini-wiki

Check the log output:

    sudo journalctl --unit gemini-wiki

=head2 Security

The server uses "access tokens" to check whether people are allowed to edit
files. You could also call them "passwords", if you want. They aren't associated
with a username. You set them using the C<--wiki_token> option. By default, the
only password is "hello". That's why the Titan command above contained
"token=hello". üòä

If you're going to check up on your wiki often, looking at Changes on a daily
basis, you could just tell people about the token on a page of your wiki.
Spammers would at least have to read the instructions and in my experience the
hardly ever do.

You could also create a separate password for every contributor and when they
leave the project, you just remove the token from the options and restart Gemini
Wiki. They will no longer be able to edit the site.

=head2 Privacy

The server only actively logs changes to pages. It calculates a "code" for every
contribution: it is a four digit octal code. The idea is that you could colour
every digit using one of the eight standard terminal colours and thus get little
four-coloured flags.

This allows you to make a pretty good guess about edits made by the same person,
without telling you their IP numbers.

The code is computed as follows: the IP numbers is turned into a 32bit number
using a hash function, converted to octal, and the first four digits are the
code. Thus all possible IP numbers are mapped into 8‚Å¥=4096 codes.

If you increase the log level, the server will produce more output, including
information about the connections happening, like C<2020/06/29-15:35:59 CONNECT
SSL Peer: "[::1]:52730" Local: "[::1]:1965"> and the like (in this case C<::1>
is my local address so that isn't too useful but it could also be your visitor's
IP numbers, in which case you will need to tell them about it using in order to
comply with the
L<GDPR|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation>.

=head2 Files

If you allow uploads of binary files, these are stored separately from the
regular pages; the wiki also doesn't keep old revisions of files around. That
also means that if somebody overwrites a file, the old revision is gone.

You definitely don't want random people uploading all sorts of images, videos
and binaries files to your server. Make sure you set up those L<tokens|/Security>
using C<--wiki_token>!

=head2 Main Page and Title

The main page will include ("transclude") a page of your choosing if you use the
C<--wiki_main_page> option. This also sets the title of your wiki in various
places like the RSS and Atom feeds.

In order to be more flexible, the name of the main page does not get printed. If
you want it, you need to add it yourself using a header. This allows you to keep
the main page in a page called "Welcome" containing some ASCII art such that the
word "Welcome" does not show on the main page. This assumes you're using
C<--wiki_main_page=Welcome>, of course.

If you have pages with names that start with an ISO date like 2020-06-30, then
I'm assuming you want some sort of blog. In this case, up to ten of them will be
shown on your front page.

=head2 GUS and robots.txt

There are search machines out there that will index your site. Ideally, these
wouldn't index the history pages and all that: they would only get the list of
all pages, and all the pages. I'm not even sure that we need them to look at all
the files. The L<robots exclusion
standard|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robots_exclusion_standard> lets you
control what the bots ought to index and what they ought to skip. It doesn't
always work.

Here's my suggestion:

    User-agent: *
    Disallow: raw/*
    Disallow: html/*
    Disallow: diff/*
    Disallow: history/*
    Disallow: do/changes*
    Disallow: do/all/changes*
    Disallow: do/rss
    Disallow: do/atom
    Disallow: do/new
    Disallow: do/more
    Disallow: do/match
    Disallow: do/search
    # allowing do/index!
    Crawl-delay: 10

In fact, as long as you don't create a page called C<robots> then this is what
gets served. I think it's a good enough way to start. If you're using spaces,
the C<robots> pages of all the spaces are concatenated.

If you want to be more paranoid, create a page called C<robots> and put this on
it:

    User-agent: *
    Disallow: /

Note that if you've created your own C<robots> page, and you haven't decided to
disallow them all, then you also have to do the right thing for all your spaces,
if you use them at all.

=head2 Limited, read-only HTTP support

You can actually look at your wiki pages using a browser! But beware: these days
browser will refuse to connect to sites that have self-signed certificates.
You'll have to click buttons and make exceptions and all of that, or get your
certificate from Let's Encrypt or the like. Anyway, it works in theory. If you
went through the L</Quickstart>, visiting C<https://localhost:1965/> should
work!

Notice that Gemini Wiki doesn't have to live behind another web server like
Apache or nginx. It's a (simple) web server, too!

Here's how you could serve the wiki both on Gemini, and the standard HTTPS port,
443:

    sudo ./gemini-wiki --port=443 --port=1965 \
      --user=$(id --user --name) --group=$(id --group  --name)

We need to use F<sudo> because all the ports below 1024 are priviledge ports and
that includes the standard HTTPS port. Since we don't want the server itself to
run with all those priviledges, however, I'm using the C<--user> and C<--group>
options to change effective and user and group ID. The F<id> command is used to
get your user and your group IDs instead. If you've followed the L</Quickstart>
and created a separate C<gemini> user, you could simply use C<--user=gemini> and
C<--group=gemini> instead. üëç

=head2 Configuration

This section describes some hooks you can use to customize your wiki using the
F<config> file. Once you're happy with the changes you've made, reload the
server to make it read the config file. You can do that by sending it the HUP
signal, if you know the pid, or if you have a pid file:

```
kill -s SIGHUP `cat gemini-wiki.pid`
```

Here are the ways you can hook into the Gemini Wiki code:

=over

=item C<@init> is a list of code references allowing you to change the
      configuration of the server; it gets executed as the server starts, after
      regular configuration

=item C<@extensions> is a list of code references allowing you to handle
      additional URLs; return 1 if you handle a URL; each code reference gets
      called with the first line of the request (a Gemini URL, a Gopher
      selector, a finger user, a HTTP request line), and a hash reference for
      the headers (in the case of HTTP requests)

=item C<@main_menu> adds more lines to the main menu, possibly links that aren't
      simply links to existing pages

=back

The following example illustrates this:

    package Gemini::Wiki;
    use Modern::Perl;
    our (@extensions, @main_menu);
    push(@main_menu, "=> gemini://localhost/do/test Test");
    push(@extensions, \&serve_test);
    sub serve_test {
      my $self = shift;
      my $url = shift;
      my $headers = shift;
      my $host = $self->host_regex();
      my $port = $self->port();
      if ($url =~ m!^gemini://($host)(?::$port)?/do/test$!) {
	say "20 text/plain\r";
	say "Test";
	return 1;
      }
      return;
    }
    1;

=head2 Wiki Spaces

Wiki spaces are separate wikis managed by the same Gemini Wiki server, on the
same machine, but with data stored in a different directory. If you used
C<--wiki_space=alex> and C<--wiki_space=berta>, for example, then you'd have
three wikis in total:

=over

=item C<gemini://localhost/> is the main space that continues to be available

=item C<gemini://localhost/alex/> is the wiki space for Alex

=item C<gemini://localhost/berta/> is the wiki space for Berta

=back

Note that all three spaces are still editable by anybody who knows any of the
L<tokens|/Security>.

=head2 Tokens per Wiki Space

Per default, there is simply one set of tokens which allows the editing of the
wiki, and all the wiki spaces you defined. If you want to give users a token
just for their space, you can do that, too. Doing this is starting to strain the
command line interface, however, and therefore the following illustrates how to
do more advanced configuration using C<@init> in the config file:

    package Gemini::Wiki;
    use Modern::Perl;
    our (@init);
    push(@init, \&init_tokens);
    sub init_tokens {
      my $self = shift;
      $self->{server}->{wiki_space_token}->{alex} = ["*secret*"];
    };

The code above sets up the C<wiki_space_token> property. It's a hash reference
where keys are existing wiki spaces and values are array references listing the
valid tokens for that space (in addition to the global tokens that you can set
up using C<--wiki_token> which defaults to the token "hello"). Thus, the above
code sets up the token C<*secret*> for the C<alex> wiki space.

You can use the config file to change the values of other properties as well,
even if these properties are set via the command line.

    package Gemini::Wiki;
    use Modern::Perl;
    our (@init);
    push(@init, \&init_tokens);
    sub init_tokens {
      my $self = shift;
      $self->{server}->{wiki_token} = [];
    };

This code simply deactivates the token list. No more tokens!

=head2 Client Certificates

Gemini Wiki serves a public wiki by default. In theory, limiting editing to
known users (that is, known client certificates) is possible. I say "in theory"
because this requires a small change to L<Net::Server::Proto::SSL>. For your
convenience, this repository comes with a patched version (based on
L<Net::Server> 2.009). All this does is add C<SSL_verify_callback> to the list of
options for L<IO::Socket::SSL>. Gemini Wiki includes the local F<lib> directory
in its library search path, so if you have the F<lib/Net/Server/Proto/SSL.pm>
file in the current directory where you start F<gemini-wiki>, it should simply
work.

Here's a config file using client certificates to limit writing to a single,
known fingerprint:

    package Gemini::Wiki;
    use Modern::Perl;
    our (@init, @extensions);
    my @fingerprints = ('sha256$e4b871adf0d74d9ab61fbf0b6773d75a152594090916834278d416a769712570');
    push(@extensions, \&protected_wiki);
    sub protected_wiki {
      my $self = shift;
      my $url = shift;
      my $host_regex = $self->host_regex();
      my $port = $self->port();
      my $spaces = join("|", map { quotemeta } $self->spaces());
      my $fingerprint = $self->{server}->{client}->get_fingerprint();
      if (my ($host, $path) = $url =~ m!^titan://($host_regex)(?::$port)?([^?#]*)!) {
	my ($space, $resource) = $path =~ m!^(?:/($spaces))?(?:/raw)?/([^/;=&]+(?:;\w+=[^;=&]+)+)!;
	if (not $resource) {
	  $self->log(4, "The Titan URL is malformed: $path $spaces");
	  say "59 The Titan URL is malformed\r";
	} elsif ($fingerprint and grep { $_ eq $fingerprint} @fingerprints) {
	  $self->log(3, "Successfully identified client certificate");
	  my ($id, @params) = split(/[;=&]/, $resource);
	  $self->write_page($host, $self->space($host, $space), decode_utf8(uri_unescape($id)),
			    {map {decode_utf8(uri_unescape($_))} @params});
	} elsif ($fingerprint) {
	  $self->log(3, "Unknown client certificate $fingerprint");
	  say "61 Your client certificate is not authorized for editing\r";
	} else {
	  $self->log(3, "Requested client certificate");
	  say "60 You need a client certificate to edit this wiki\r";
	}
	return 1;
      }
      return;
    }
    1;

C<@fingerprints> is a list, so you could add more fingerprints:

    my @fingerprints = qw(
      sha256$e4b871adf0d74d9ab61fbf0b6773d75a152594090916834278d416a769712570
      sha256$4a948f5a11f4a81d0a2e8b60b1e4b3c9d1e25f4d95694965d98b333a443a3b25);

Or you could read them from a file:

    use File::Slurper qw(read_lines);
    my @fingerprints = read_lines("fingerprints");

The important part is that this code matches the same Titan requests as the
default code, and it comes first. Thus, the old code can no longer be reached
and this code checks for a known client certificate fingerprint.

To be sure, it doesn't check anything else! It doesn't check whether the client
certificate has expired, for example.

You could, for example, install Gemini Wiki, use the code above for your config
file, and replace the fingerprint with the fingerprint of your own client
certificate. The F<Makefile> allows you to easily create such a certificate:

    make client-cert

Answer at least one of the questions OpenSSL asks of you and you should now have
a F<client-cert.pem> and a F<client-key.pem> file. To get the fingerprint of
your client certificate:

    make client-fingerprint

The output is the fingerprint you need to put into your config file.

=head2 Virtual Hosting

Sometimes you want have a machine reachable under different domain names and you
want each domain name to have their own wiki space, automatically. You can do
this by using multiple C<--host> options.

Here's a simple, stand-alone setup that will work on your local machine. These
are usually reachable using the IPv4 C<127.0.0.1> or the name C<localhost>. The
following command tells Gemini Wiki to serve both C<127.0.0.1> and C<localhost>
(the default is to just serve C<localhost>).

    perl gemini-wiki --host=127.0.0.1 --host=localhost

Visit both at L<gemini://localhost/> and L<gemini://127.0.0.1/>, and create a
new page in each one, then examine the data directory F<wiki>. You'll see both
F<wiki/localhost> and F<wiki/127.0.0.1>.

If you're using more wiki spaces, you need to prefix them with the respective
hostname if you use more than one:

    perl gemini-wiki --host=127.0.0.1 --host=localhost \
        --wiki_space=127.0.0.1/alex --wiki_space=localhost/berta

In this situation, you can visit L<gemini://127.0.0.1/>,
L<gemini://127.0.0.1/alex/>, L<gemini://localhost/>, and
L<gemini://localhost/berta/>, and they will all be different.

If this is confusing, remember that not using virtual hosting and not using
spaces is fine, too. üòÄ

=head2 Multiple Certificates

If you're using virtual hosting as discussed above, you have two options: you
can use one certificate for all your hostnames, or you can use different
certificates for the hosts. If you want to use just one certificate for all your
hosts, you don't need to do anything else. If you want to use different
certificates for different hosts, you have to specify them all on the command
line. Generally speaking, use C<--host> to specifiy one or more hosts, followed
by both C<--cert_file> and C<--key_file> to specifiy the certificate and key to
use for the hosts.

For example:

    perl gemini-wiki --host=transjovian.org \
        --cert_file=/var/lib/dehydrated/certs/transjovian.org/cert.pem \
        --key_file=/var/lib/dehydrated/certs/transjovian.org/privkey.pem \
        --host=alexschroeder.ch \
        --cert_file=/var/lib/dehydrated/certs/alexschroeder.ch/cert.pem \
        --key_file=/var/lib/dehydrated/certs/alexschroeder.ch/privkey.pem

=cut

package Gemini::Wiki;
use base qw(Net::Server::Fork); # any personality will do
use File::Slurper qw(read_text read_binary read_lines read_dir write_text write_binary);
use Encode qw(encode_utf8 decode_utf8);
use List::Util qw(first min);
use Modern::Perl '2018';
use File::ReadBackwards;
use Algorithm::Diff;
use IO::Socket::SSL;
use URI::Escape;
use Pod::Text;
use utf8;
use B;

# The following is needed because there's a patched version of
# Net::Server::Proto::SSL 2.009 in the repository which you need if you want to
# use client certificates. If you don't need client certificates, then the
# patched version of Net::Server::Proto::SSL is not required.
use lib 'lib';

# Gemini server variables you can set in the config file
our (@init, @extensions, @main_menu);

Gemini::Wiki->run(wiki_command_line());

sub wiki_command_line {
  # defaults
  my %args = (
    proto => 'ssl',
    # default file names
    SSL_cert_file => 'cert.pem',
    SSL_key_file => 'key.pem',
    # the following is needed for client certificates
    SSL_verify_mode => SSL_VERIFY_PEER,
    SSL_verify_callback => \&verify_fingerprint, );
  my (@host, $cert, $key);
  for (@ARGV) {
    if ($_ eq '--help') {
      my $parser = Pod::Text->new();
      $parser->parse_file($0);
      exit;
    }
    push(@host, $1) if /--host=([^\/*]+)/;
    $cert = $1 if /--cert_file=(.*)/;
    $key = $1 if /--key_file=(.*)/;
    if ($cert and $key) {
      if (@host) {
	$args{SSL_cert_file} = {} unless ref $args{SSL_cert_file} eq 'HASH';
	$args{SSL_key_file} = {} unless ref $args{SSL_key_file} eq 'HASH';
	for (@host) {
	  $args{SSL_cert_file}->{$_} = $cert;
	  $args{SSL_key_file}->{$_} = $key;
	}
      } else {
	$args{SSL_cert_file} = $cert;
	$args{SSL_key_file} = $key;
      }
      $cert = $key = undef;
      @host = ();
    }
  }
  if ($cert or $key) {
    die "I must have both --key_file and --cert_file\n";
  }
  return \%args;
}

sub verify_fingerprint {
  my ($ok, $ctx_store, $certname, $error, $cert, $depth) = @_;
  return 1;
}

sub default_values {
  my $protocols = 'https?|ftp|afs|news|nntp|mid|cid|mailto|wais|prospero|telnet|gophers?|irc|feed|gemini|xmpp';
  my $chars = '[-a-zA-Z0-9/@=+$_~*.,;:?!\'"()&#%]'; # see RFC 2396
  return {
    full_url_regex => "((?:$protocols):$chars+)",
    host => 'localhost',
    port => 1965,
    wiki_token => ['hello'],
    wiki_space => [],
    wiki_mime_type => [],
    wiki_dir => './wiki',
    wiki_main_page => '',
    wiki_page_size_limit => 100000,
  };
}

sub options {
  my $self = shift;
  my $prop = $self->{'server'};
  my $template = shift;
  $self->SUPER::options($template);
  $prop->{full_url_regex} ||= undef;
  $template->{full_url_regex} = \$prop->{full_url_regex};
  $prop->{wiki_dir} ||= undef;
  $template->{wiki_dir} = \$prop->{wiki_dir};
  $prop->{wiki_main_page} ||= undef;
  $template->{wiki_main_page} = \$prop->{wiki_main_page};
  $prop->{wiki_token} ||= [];
  $template->{wiki_token} = $prop->{wiki_token};
  $prop->{wiki_page} ||= [];
  $template->{wiki_page} = $prop->{wiki_page};
  $prop->{wiki_space} ||= [];
  $template->{wiki_space} = $prop->{wiki_space};
  $prop->{wiki_space_token} ||= {};
  # no way to set it from the command line
  $prop->{wiki_mime_type} ||= [];
  $template->{wiki_mime_type} = $prop->{wiki_mime_type};
  $prop->{wiki_page_size_limit} ||= undef;
  $template->{wiki_page_size_limit} = \$prop->{wiki_page_size_limit};
}

sub post_configure_hook {
  my $self = shift;
  $self->{server}->{wiki_dir} = $ENV{GEMINI_WIKI_DATA_DIR} if $ENV{GEMINI_WIKI_DATA_DIR};
  # gemini config file with extra code, run it for every request
  my $config = $self->{server}->{wiki_dir} . "/config";
  $self->log(3, "Running $config");
  do $config if -r $config;
  $self->log(1, "$@") if $@;
  # summarize config results
  $self->log(3, "PID $$");
  $self->log(3, "Port @{$self->{server}->{port}}");
  $self->log(3, "Host " . ("@{$self->{server}->{host}}" || "*"));
    $self->log(3, "Space @{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}}");
  if (@{$self->{server}->{host}} > 1) {
    my $host_regex = $self->host_regex();
    for (grep(!/^$host_regex\//, @{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}})) {
      $self->log(2, "Space $_ is not prefixed with a known host");
    }
  } else {
    for (grep(/\//, @{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}})) {
      $self->log(2, "Space $_ is prefixed with a host but we serve just one");
    }
  }
  $self->log(3, "Token @{$self->{server}->{wiki_token}}");
  $self->log(3, "Main page $self->{server}->{wiki_main_page}");
  $self->log(3, "Pages @{$self->{server}->{wiki_page}}");
  $self->log(3, "MIME types @{$self->{server}->{wiki_mime_type}}");
  $self->log(3, "Wiki data directory is $self->{server}->{wiki_dir}");
}

sub success {
  my $self = shift;
  my $type = shift || 'text/gemini; charset=UTF-8';
  my $lang = shift;
  if ($lang) {
    say "20 $type; lang=$lang\r";
  } else {
    say "20 $type\r";
  }
}

# We can't use C<flock> because this defaults to C<fcntl> which means they are
# I<per process> and we don't know whether this code is going to be threaded or
# not.
sub with_lock {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $code = shift;
  my $retry = shift;
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  my $lock = "$dir/locked";
  # remove stale locks
  rmdir $lock if -e $lock and time() - $self->modified($lock) > 5;
  for (1 .. 25) { # try up to 25√ó0.2s=5s
    if (mkdir($lock)) {
      eval { $code->() }; # protect against exceptions
      $self->log(1, "Unable to run code with locked $lock: $@") if $@;
      rmdir($lock);
      return;
    } else {
      $self->log(4, "Waiting for $lock");
      select(undef, undef, undef, 0.19 + rand(0.02)); # sleep ca. 0.2s
    }
  }
  if ($retry) { # retry only once
    $self->log(1, "Unable to unlock $lock");
  } else {
    $self->log(2, "Forced unlocking of $lock");
    $self->unlock($lock);
    $self->with_lock($lock, $code, 1);
  }
}

# The hostnames we know we want to serve because they were specified via --host
# options.
sub host_regex {
  my $self = shift;
  return join("|", map { quotemeta } @{$self->{server}->{host}});
}

sub port {
  my $self = shift;
  return $self->{server}->{sockport}; # the actual port
}

# if you call this yourself, $id must look like "page/foo"
sub link {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $scheme = shift || "gemini";
  my $port = $self->port();
  if ($space) {
    $space = "" if $space eq $host;
    $space =~ s/.*\///;
    $space = uri_escape_utf8($space);
  }
  # don't encode the slash
  return "$scheme://$host:$port/"
      . ($space ? "$space/" : "")
      . join("/", map { uri_escape_utf8($_) } split (/\//, $id));
}

sub link_html {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $title = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  if (not $id) {
    $id = "page/$title";
  }
  my $port = $self->port();
  # don't encode the slash
  return "<a href=\"https://$host:$port/"
      . ($space && $space ne $host ? uri_escape_utf8($space) . "/" : "")
      . join("/", map { uri_escape_utf8($_) } split (/\//, $id))
      . "\">"
      . $self->quote_html($title)
      . "</a>";
}

sub gemini_link {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $title = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  if (not $id) {
    $id = "page/$title";
  }
  return "=> $id $title" if $id =~ /^$self->{server}->{full_url_regex}$/;
  my $url = $self->link($host, $space, $id);
  return "=> $url $title";
}

sub print_link {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $title = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  say $self->gemini_link($host, $space, $title, $id);
}

sub pages {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $re = shift;
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  my $index = "$dir/index";
  if (not -f $index) {
    return if not -d "$dir/page";
    my @pages = map { s/\.gmi$//; $_ } read_dir("$dir/page");
    write_text($index, join("\n", @pages, ""));
    return @pages;
  }
  return grep /$re/i, read_lines $index if $re;
  return read_lines $index;
}

sub blog_pages {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  return sort { $b cmp $a } $self->pages($host, $space, '^\d\d\d\d-\d\d-\d\d');
}

sub blog {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my @blog = $self->blog_pages($host, $space);
  return unless @blog;
  say "Blog:";
  # we should check for pages marked for deletion!
  for my $id (@blog[0..min($#blog, 9)]) {
    $self->print_link($host, $space, $id);
  }
  $self->print_link($host, $space, "More...", "do/more") if @blog > 10;
  say "";
}

sub blog_html {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my @blog = $self->blog_pages($host, $space);
  return unless @blog;
  say "<p>Blog:";
  say "<ul>";
  # we should check for pages marked for deletion!
  for my $id (@blog[0..min($#blog, 9)]) {
    say "<li>" . $self->link_html($host, $space, $id);
  }
  say "</ul>";
}

sub serve_main_menu {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift||"";
  my $space = shift||"";
  $self->log(3, "Serving main menu");
  $self->success();
  my $page = $self->{server}->{wiki_main_page};
  if ($page) {
    say $self->text($host, $space, $page);
  } else {
    say "# Welcome to the Gemini Wiki!";
    say "";
  }
  $self->blog($host, $space);
  for my $id (@{$self->{server}->{wiki_page}}) {
    $self->print_link($host, $space, $id);
  }
  for my $line (@main_menu) {
    say $line;
  }
  $self->print_link($host, $space, "Changes", "do/changes");
  $self->print_link($host, $space, "Search matching page names", "do/match");
  $self->print_link($host, $space, "Search matching page content", "do/search");
  $self->print_link($host, $space, "New page", "do/new");
  say "";
  $self->print_link($host, $space, "Index of all pages", "do/index");
  $self->print_link($host, $space, "Index of all files", "do/files");
  $self->print_link($host, undef, "Index of all spaces", "do/spaces")
      if @{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}} or @{$self->{server}->{host}} > 1;
  $self->print_link($host, $space, "Download data", "do/data");
  # a requirement of the GNU Affero General Public License
  $self->print_link($host, undef, "Source code", "do/source");
  say "";
}

sub serve_main_menu_via_http {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving main menu via HTTP");
  my $page = $self->{server}->{wiki_main_page};
  say "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r";
  say "Content-Type: text/html\r";
  say "\r";
  say "<!DOCTYPE html>";
  say "<html>";
  say "<head>";
  say "<meta charset=\"utf-8\">";
  if ($page) {
    say "<title>" . $self->quote_html($page) . "</title>";
  } else {
    say "<title>Gemini Wiki</title>";
  }
  say "</head>";
  say "<body>";
  if ($page) {
    $self->print_html($host, $space, $page);
  } else {
    say "<h1>Welcome to the Gemini Wiki!</h1>";
  }
  $self->blog_html($host, $space);
  say "<p>Important links:";
  say "<ul>";
  my @pages = @{$self->{server}->{wiki_page}};
  for my $id (@pages) {
    say "<li>" . $self->link_html($host, $space, $id);
  }
  say "<li>" . $self->link_html($host, $space, "Changes", "do/changes");
  say "<li>" . $self->link_html($host, $space, "Index of all pages", "do/index");
  say "<li>" . $self->link_html($host, $space, "Index of all files", "do/files")
      if @{$self->{server}->{wiki_mime_type}};
  say "<li>" . $self->link_html($host, undef, "Index of all spaces", "do/spaces")
      if @{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}} or @{$self->{server}->{host}} > 1;
  # a requirement of the GNU Affero General Public License
  say "<li>" . $self->link_html($host, undef, "Source", "do/source");
  say "</ul>";
  say "</body>";
  say "</html>";
}

sub quote_html {
  my $self = shift;
  my $html = shift;
  $html =~ s/&/&amp;/g;
  $html =~ s/</&lt;/g;
  $html =~ s/>/&gt;/g;
  $html =~ s/[\x00-\x08\x0b\x0c\x0e-\x1f]/ /g; # legal xml: #x9 | #xA | #xD | [#x20-#xD7FF] | [#xE000-#xFFFD] | [#x10000-#x10FFFF]
  return $html;
}

sub serve_blog {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  $self->success();
  $self->log(3, "Serving blog");
  say "# Blog";
  my @blog = $self->blog($host, $space);
  say "The are no blog pages." unless @blog;
  for my $id (@blog) {
    $self->print_link($host, $space, $id);
  }
}

sub serve_index {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  $self->success();
  $self->log(3, "Serving index of all pages");
  say "# All Pages";
  my @pages = $self->pages($host, $space);
  say "The are no pages." unless @pages;
  for my $id (sort { $self->newest_first($a, $b) } @pages) {
    $self->print_link($host, $space, $id);
  }
}

sub serve_index_via_http {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving index of all pages via HTTP");
  say "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r";
  say "Content-Type: text/html\r";
  say "\r";
  say "<!DOCTYPE html>";
  say "<html>";
  say "<head>";
  say "<meta charset=\"utf-8\">";
  say "<title>All Pages</title>";
  say "</head>";
  say "<body>";
  say "<h1>All Pages</h1>";
  my @pages = $self->pages($host, $space);
  if (@pages) {
    say "<ul>";
    for my $id (sort { $self->newest_first($a, $b) } @pages) {
      say "<li>" . $self->link_html($host, $space, $id);
    }
    say "</ul>";
  } else {
    say "<p>The are no pages."
  }
}

sub files {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $re = shift;
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  $dir = "$dir/file";
  return if not -d $dir;
  my @files = read_dir($dir);
  return grep /$re/i, @files if $re;
  return @files;
}

sub serve_files {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  $self->success();
  $self->log(3, "Serving index of all files");
  say "# All Files";
  my @files = $self->files($host, $space);
  say "The are no files." unless @files;
  for my $id (sort @files) {
    $self->print_link($host, $space, $id, "file/$id");
  }
}

sub serve_files_via_http {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving all files via HTTP");
  say "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r";
  say "Content-Type: text/html\r";
  say "\r";
  say "<!DOCTYPE html>";
  say "<html>";
  say "<head>";
  say "<meta charset=\"utf-8\">";
  say "<title>All Files</title>";
  say "</head>";
  say "<body>";
  say "<h1>All Files</h1>";
  my @files = $self->files($host, $space);
  if (@files) {
    say "<ul>";
    for my $id (sort @files) {
      say "<li>" . $self->link_html($host, $space, $id, "file/$id");
    }
    say "</ul>";
  } else {
    say "<p>The are no files."
  }
}

sub serve_spaces {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $port = shift;
  $self->success();
  $self->log(3, "Serving all spaces");
  say "# Spaces";
  my $spaces = $self->space_links("gemini", $host, $port);
  for my $url (sort keys %$spaces) {
    say "=> $url $spaces->{$url}";
  }
}

sub serve_spaces_via_http {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $port = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving all spaces via HTTP");
  say "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r";
  say "Content-Type: text/html\r";
  say "\r";
  say "<!DOCTYPE html>";
  say "<html>";
  say "<head>";
  say "<meta charset=\"utf-8\">";
  say "<title>All Spaces</title>";
  say "</head>";
  say "<body>";
  say "<h1>All Spaces</h1>";
  say "<ul>";
  my $spaces = $self->space_links("https", $host, $port);
  for my $url (sort keys %$spaces) {
    say "<li><a href=\"$url\">$spaces->{$url}</a>";
  }
  say "</ul>";
}

sub serve_data {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  # use /bin/tar instead of Archive::Tar to save memory
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  my $file = "$dir/data.tar.gz";
  if (-e $file and time() - $self->modified($file) <= 300) { # data is valid for 5 minutes
    $self->log(3, "Serving cached data archive");
    $self->success("application/tar");
    print read_binary($file);
  } else {
    write_binary($file, ""); # truncate in order to avoid "file changed as we read it" warning
    my @command = ('/bin/tar', '--create', '--gzip',
		   '--file', $file,
		   '--exclude', $file,
		   '--directory', "$dir/..",
		   ((split(/\//,$dir))[-1]));
    $self->log(4, "@command");
    if (system(@command) == 0) {
      $self->log(3, "Serving new data archive");
      $self->success("application/tar");
      print read_binary($file);
    } else {
      $self->log(1, "Creation of data archive failed");
      say("59 Archive creation failed\r");
    }
  }
}

sub serve_match {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $match = shift;
  if (not $match) {
    say("59 Search term is missing\r");
    return;
  }
  $self->success();
  $self->log(3, "Serving pages matching $match");
  say "# Search page titles for $match";
  say "Use a Perl regular expression to match page titles.";
  my @pages = $self->pages($host, $space, $match);
  say "No matching page names found." unless @pages;
  for my $id (sort { $self->newest_first($a, $b) } @pages) {
    $self->print_link($host, $space, $id);
  }
}

sub serve_search {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $str = shift;
  if (not $str) {
    say("59 Search term is missing\r");
    return;
  }
  $self->success();
  $self->log(3, "Serving search result for $str");
  say "# Search page content for $str";
  say "Use a Perl regular expression to match page titles and page content.";
  if (not $self->search($host, $space, $str, sub { $self->highlight(@_) })) {
    say "Search term not found."
  }
}

sub search {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $str = shift;
  my $func = shift;
  my @pages = sort { $self->newest_first($a, $b) } $self->pages($host, $space);
  return unless @pages;
  my $found = 0;
  for my $id (@pages) {
    my $text = $self->text($host, $space, $id);
    if ($id =~ /$str/ or $text =~ /$str/) {
      $func->($host, $space, $id, $text, $str);
      $found++;
    }
  }
  return $found;
}

sub highlight {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $text = shift;
  my $str = shift;
  my ($snippetlen, $maxsnippets) = (100, 4); #  these seem nice.
  # show a snippet from the beginning of the document
  my $j = index($text, ' ', $snippetlen); # end on word boundary
  my $t = substr($text, 0, $j);
  my $result = "## $id\n$t ‚Ä¶ ";
  $text = substr($text, $j);  # to avoid rematching
  my $jsnippet = 0 ;
  while ($jsnippet < $maxsnippets and $text =~ m/($str)/i) {
    $jsnippet++;
    if (($j = index($text, $1)) > -1 ) {
      # get substr containing (start of) match, ending on word boundaries
      my $start = index($text, ' ', $j - $snippetlen / 2);
      $start = 0 if $start == -1;
      my $end = index($text, ' ', $j + $snippetlen / 2);
      $end = length($text) if $end == -1;
      $t = substr($text, $start, $end - $start);
      $result .= $t . ' ‚Ä¶ ';
      # truncate text to avoid rematching the same string.
      $text = substr($text, $end);
    }
  }
  say $result;
  $self->print_link($host, $space, $id);
}

sub serve_changes {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $n = shift;
  my $style = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving $n changes");
  $self->success();
  say "# Changes";
  if (not $style) { $self->print_link($host, undef, "Colour changes", "do/changes/$n/colour") }
  elsif ($style eq "colour") { $self->print_link($host, undef, "Fancy changes", "do/changes/$n/fancy") }
  elsif ($style eq "fancy") { $self->print_link($host, undef, "Normal changes", "do/changes/$n") }
  $self->print_link($host, $space, "Changes for all spaces", "do/all/changes")
      if @{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}};
  $self->print_link($host, $space, "Atom Feed", "do/atom");
  $self->print_link($host, $space, "RSS Feed", "do/rss");
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  my $log = "$dir/changes.log";
  if (not -e $log) {
    say "No changes.";
    return;
  }
  say "Showing up to $n changes.";
  my $fh = File::ReadBackwards->new($log);
  return unless $self->changes(
    $n,
    sub { say "## " . shift },
    sub { say shift . " by " . $self->colourize(shift, $style) },
    sub { $self->print_link(@_) },
    sub {
      return unless $_ = $fh->readline;
      chomp;
      split(/\x1f/), $host, $space, 0 });
  say "";
  $self->print_link($host, $space, "More...", "do/changes/" . 10 * $n . ($style ? "/$style" : ""));
}

sub serve_changes_via_http {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $n = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving $n changes via HTTP");
  say "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r";
  say "Content-Type: text/html\r";
  say "\r";
  say "<!DOCTYPE html>";
  say "<html>";
  say "<head>";
  say "<meta charset=\"utf-8\">";
  say "<title>Changes</title>";
  say "</head>";
  say "<body>";
  say "<h1>Changes</h1>";
  say "<ul>";
  say "<li>" . $self->link_html($host, $space, "Changes for all spaces", "do/all/changes")
      if @{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}};
  say "<li>" . $self->link_html($host, $space, "Atom feed", "do/atom");
  say "<li>" . $self->link_html($host, $space, "RSS feed", "do/rss");
  say "</ul>";
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  my $log = "$dir/changes.log";
  if (not -e $log) {
    say "<p>No changes.";
    return;
  }
  say "<p>Showing up to $n changes.";
  my $fh = File::ReadBackwards->new($log);
  my $first = 1;
  my $more = $self->changes(
    $n,
    sub { say "</ul>" unless $first; $first = 0; say "<h2>" . shift . "</h2>"; say "<ul>"; },
    sub { say "<li>" . shift . " by " . $self->colourize_html(shift) },
    sub {
      my ($host, $space, $title, $id) = @_;
      say " ‚Üí " . $self->link_html($host, $space, $title, $id);
    },
    sub {
      return unless $_ = $fh->readline;
      chomp;
      split(/\x1f/), $host, $space, 0 });
  say "</ul>";
  return unless $more;
  say "<p>" . $self->link_html($host, $space, "More...", "do/changes/" . 10 * $n);
}

sub serve_all_changes {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $n = shift;
  my $style = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving $n all changes");
  $self->success();
  say "# Changes for all spaces";
  # merge all logs
  my $log = $self->all_logs($host, $n);
  if (not @$log) {
    say "No changes.";
    return;
  }
  if (not $style) { $self->print_link($host, undef, "Colour changes", "do/all/changes/$n/colour") }
  elsif ($style eq "colour") { $self->print_link($host, undef, "Fancy changes", "do/all/changes/$n/fancy") }
  elsif ($style eq "fancy") { $self->print_link($host, undef, "Normal changes", "do/all/changes/$n") }
  # taking the head of the @$log to get new log entries
  say "Showing up to $n changes.";
  return unless $self->changes(
    $n,
    sub { say "## " . shift },
    sub { say shift . " by " . $self->colourize(shift, $style) },
    sub { $self->print_link(@_) },
    sub { @{shift(@$log) }, 1 if @$log });
  say "";
  $self->print_link($host, undef, "More...", "do/all/changes/" . 10 * $n . ($style ? "/$style" : ""));
}

sub serve_all_changes_via_http {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $n = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving $n all changes via HTTP");
  say "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r";
  say "Content-Type: text/html\r";
  say "\r";
  say "<!DOCTYPE html>";
  say "<html>";
  say "<head>";
  say "<meta charset=\"utf-8\">";
  say "<title>Changes for all spaces</title>";
  say "</head>";
  say "<body>";
  say "<h1>Changes for all spaces</h1>";
  my $log = $self->all_logs($host, $n);
  if (not @$log) {
    say "<p>No changes.";
    return;
  }
  # taking the head of the @$log to get new log entries
  say "<p>Showing up to $n changes.";
  my $first = 1;
  my $more = $self->changes(
    $n,
    sub { say "</ul>" unless $first; $first = 0; say "<h2>" . shift . "</h2>"; say "<ul>"; },
    sub { say "<li>" . shift . " by " . $self->colourize_html(shift) },
    sub { say " ‚Üí " . $self->link_html(@_) },
    sub { @{shift(@$log) }, 1 if @$log });
  say "</ul>";
  return unless $more;
  say "<p>" . $self->link_html($host, undef, "More...", "do/all/changes/" . 10 * $n);
}

sub all_logs {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $n = shift;
  # merge all logs
  my @log;
  my $dir = $self->{server}->{wiki_dir};
  my @spaces = $self->space_dirs();
  for my $space (@spaces) {
    my $log = $dir;
    $log .= "/$space" if $space;
    $log .= "/changes.log";
    next unless -f $log;
    $self->log(4, "Reading $log");
    next unless my $fh = File::ReadBackwards->new($log);
    if (@{$self->{server}->{host}} > 1) {
      push(@log, @{$self->read_log($fh, $n, split(/\//, $space, 2))});
    } else {
      push(@log, @{$self->read_log($fh, $n, $host, $space)});
    }
  }
  @log = sort { $b->[0] <=> $a->[0] } @log;
  return \@log;
 }

sub read_log {
  my $self = shift;
  my $fh = shift;
  my $n = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my @log;
  for (1 .. $n) {
    last unless $_ = $fh->readline;
    chomp;
    push(@log, [split(/\x1f/), $host, $space]);
  }
  $self->log(4, "Read log: " . @log);
  return \@log;
}

# $n is the number of changes to show. $header is code reference that prints a
# header for the date (one argument). $change is a code reference that prints
# the time and code of the person making the change (two arguments). $link is a
# code reference that prints a link (four arguments). $next is a code reference
# that returns the list of attributes for the next change, these attributes
# being: the timestamp (as returned by time); the page or file name; the page
# revision or zero if a file; the code to represent the person that made the
# change, represented as a string of octal digits that will be fed to the
# colourize sub; the host, and the spaces, if any; and a boolean if space and
# page or file name should both be shown (up to seven arguments).
sub changes {
  my $self = shift;
  my $n = shift;
  my $header = shift;
  my $change = shift;
  my $link = shift;
  my $next = shift;
  my $last_day = '';
  my %seen;
  for (1 .. $n) {
    my ($ts, $id, $revision, $code, $host, $space, $show_space) = $next->();
    return unless $ts and $id;
    my $name;
    if ($show_space) {
      if (@{$self->{server}->{host}} > 1) {
	if ($space) {
	  $name = "[$host/$space] $id";
	} else {
	  $name = "[$host] $id";
	}
      } elsif ($space) {
	$name = "[$space] $id";
      } else {
	$name = $id;
      }
    } else {
      $name = $id;
    }
    my $day = $self->day($ts);
    if ($day ne $last_day) {
      $header->($day);
      $last_day = $day;
    }
    $change->($self->time_of_day($ts), $code);
    if ($revision) {
      if ($seen{$name}) {
	$link->($host, $space, "$name ($revision)", "page/$id/$revision");
	my $kept = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space) . "/keep/$id/$revision.gmi";
	$link->($host, $space, "Differences", "diff/$id/$revision") if -e $kept;
      } else {
	$link->($host, $space, "$name (current)", "page/$id");
	$seen{$name} = 1;
	$link->($host, $space, "History", "history/$id");
      }
    } else {
      # there can be pages and files sharing the same name
      if ($seen{$id . "\x1c"}) {
	say "$name (file)";
      } else {
	$link->($host, $space, "$name (file)", "file/$id");
	$seen{$id . "\x1c"} = 1;
      }
    }
  }
  return () = $next->(); # return something, if there's more
}

sub colourize {
  my $self = shift;
  my $code = shift;
  my $style = shift;
  my %rgb;
  return $code unless $style;
  if ($style eq "colour") {
    # 3/4 bit
    return join("", map { "\033[1;3${_};4${_}m${_}" } split //, $code) . "\033[0m ";
  } elsif ($style eq "fancy") {
    # 24 bit!
    %rgb = (
    0 => "0;0;0",
    1 => "222;56;43",
    2 => "57;181;74",
    3 => "255;199;6",
    4 => "0;111;184",
    5 => "118;38;113",
    6 => "44;181;233",
    7 => "204;204;204", );
    return join("", map { "\033[38;2;$rgb{$_};48;2;$rgb{$_}m$_" } split //, $code) . "\033[0m ";
  }
  return $code;
}

# https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code#3/4_bit
sub colourize_html {
  my $self = shift;
  my $code = shift;
  my %rgb = (
    0 => "0,0,0",
    1 => "222,56,43",
    2 => "57,181,74",
    3 => "255,199,6",
    4 => "0,111,184",
    5 => "118,38,113",
    6 => "44,181,233 ",
    7 => "204,204,204", );
  $code = join("", map {
    "<span style=\"color: rgb($rgb{$_}); background-color: rgb($rgb{$_})\">$_</span>";
	       } split //, $code);
  return $code;
}

sub serve_rss {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving Gemini RSS");
  $self->success("application/rss+xml");
  $self->rss($host, $space, 'gemini');
}

sub serve_rss_via_http {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving RSS via HTTP");
  say "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r";
  say "Content-Type: application/xml\r";
  say "\r";
  $self->rss($host, $space, 'https');
}

sub rss {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $scheme = shift;
  my $name = $self->{server}->{wiki_main_page} || "Gemini Wiki";
  my $port = $self->port();
  say "<rss version=\"2.0\" xmlns:atom=\"http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom\">";
  say "<channel>";
  say "<title>" . $self->quote_html($name) . "</title>";
  say "<description>Changes on this wiki.</description>";
  say "<link>$scheme://$host:$port/</link>";
  say "<atom:link rel=\"self\" type=\"application/rss+xml\" href=\"$scheme://$host:$port/do/rss\" />";
  say "<generator>Gemini Wiki</generator>";
  say "<docs>http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss</docs>";
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  my $log = "$dir/changes.log";
  if (-e $log and my $fh = File::ReadBackwards->new($log)) {
    my %seen;
    for (1 .. 100) {
      last unless $_ = $fh->readline;
      chomp;
      my ($ts, $id, $revision, $code) = split(/\x1f/);
      next if $seen{$id};
      $seen{$id} = 1;
      say "<item>";
      say "<title>" . $self->quote_html($id) . "</title>";
      my $link = $self->link($host, $space, "page/$id", $scheme);
      say "<link>$link</link>";
      say "<guid>$link</guid>";
      say "<description>" . $self->quote_html($self->text($host, $space, $id)) . "</description>";
      my ($sec, $min, $hour, $mday, $mon, $year, $wday) = gmtime($ts); # Sat, 07 Sep 2002 00:00:01 GMT
      say "<pubDate>"
	  . sprintf("%s, %02d %s %04d %02d:%02d:%02d GMT", qw(Sun Mon Tue Wed Thu Fri Sat)[$wday], $mday,
		    qw(Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec)[$mon], $year + 1900, $hour, $min, $sec)
	  . "</pubDate>";
      say "</item>";
    }
  }
  say "</channel>";
  say "</rss>";
}

sub serve_atom {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving Gemini Atom");
  $self->success("application/atom+xml");
  $self->atom($host, $space, 'gemini');
}

sub serve_atom_via_http {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving Atom via HTTP");
  say "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r";
  say "Content-Type: application/xml\r";
  say "\r";
  $self->atom($host, $space, 'https');
}

sub atom {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $scheme = shift;
  my $name = $self->{server}->{wiki_main_page} || "Gemini Wiki";
  my $port = $self->port();
  say "<?xml version=\"1.0\" encoding=\"utf-8\"?>";
  say "<feed xmlns=\"http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom\">";
  say "<title>" . $self->quote_html($name) . "</title>";
  say "<link href=\"$scheme://$host:$port/\"/>";
  say "<link rel=\"self\" type=\"application/atom+xml\" href=\"$scheme://$host:$port/do/atom\"/>";
  say "<id>$scheme://$host:$port/do/atom</id>";
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  my $log = "$dir/changes.log";
  my ($sec, $min, $hour, $mday, $mon, $year) = gmtime($self->modified($log)); # 2003-12-13T18:30:02Z
  say "<updated>"
      . sprintf("%04d-%02d-%02dT%02d:%02d:%02dZ", $year + 1900, $mon, $mday, $hour, $min, $sec)
      . "</updated>";
  say "<generator uri=\"https://alexschroeder.ch/cgit/gemini-wiki/about/\" version=\"1.0\">Gemini Wiki</generator>";
  if (-e $log and my $fh = File::ReadBackwards->new($log)) {
    my %seen;
    for (1 .. 100) {
      last unless $_ = $fh->readline;
      chomp;
      my ($ts, $id, $revision, $code) = split(/\x1f/);
      next if $seen{$id};
      $seen{$id} = 1;
      say "<entry>";
      say "<title>" . $self->quote_html($id) . "</title>";
      my $link = $self->link($host, $space, "page/$id", $scheme);
      say "<link href=\"$link\"/>";
      say "<id>$link</id>";
      say "<summary>" . $self->quote_html($self->text($host, $space, $id)) . "</summary>";
      ($sec, $min, $hour, $mday, $mon, $year) = gmtime($ts); # 2003-12-13T18:30:02Z
      say "<updated>"
	  . sprintf("%04d-%02d-%02dT%02d:%02d:%02dZ", $year + 1900, $mon, $mday, $hour, $min, $sec)
	  . "</updated>";
      say "<author><name>$code</name></author>";
      say "</entry>";
    }
  }
  say "</feed>";
}

sub serve_raw {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $revision = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving raw $id");
  $self->success('text/plain; charset=UTF-8');
  print $self->text($host, $space, $id, $revision);
}

sub serve_raw_via_http {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $revision = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving raw $id via HTTP");
  say "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r";
  say "Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\r";
  say "\r";
  print $self->text($host, $space, $id, $revision);
}

sub serve_diff {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $revision = shift;
  my $style = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving the diff of $id");
  $self->success();
  say "# Differences for $id";
  if (not $style) { $self->print_link($host, $space, "Colour diff", "diff/$id/$revision/colour") }
  else { $self->print_link($host, $space, "Normal diff", "diff/$id/$revision") }
  say "Showing the differences between revision $revision and the current revision of $id.";
  my $new = $self->text($host, $space, $id);
  my $old = $self->text($host, $space, $id, $revision);
  if (not $style) {
    say $self->diff($old, $new,
		    sub { say $_ for @_ },
		    sub { say "> $_" for map { $_||"‚èé" } @_ },
		    sub { say "> $_" for map { $_||"‚èé" } @_ });
  } else {
    say $self->diff($old, $new,
		    sub { say $_ for @_ },
		    sub { say "> \033[31m$_\033[0m" for map { $_||"‚èé" } @_ },
		    sub { say "> \033[32m$_\033[0m" for map { $_||"‚èé" } @_ });
  }
}

sub serve_diff_via_http {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $revision = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving the diff of $id via HTTP");
  say "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r";
  say "Content-Type: text/html\r";
  say "\r";
  say "<!DOCTYPE html>";
  say "<html>";
  say "<head>";
  say "<meta charset=\"utf-8\">";
  say "<title>Differences for " . quote_html($id) . "</title>";
  say "</head>";
  say "<body>";
  say "<h1>Differences for " . quote_html($id) . "</h1>";
  say "<p>Showing the differences between revision $revision and the current revision of $id.";
  my $new = $self->text($host, $space, $id);
  my $old = $self->text($host, $space, $id, $revision);
  say $self->diff($old, $new,
		  sub { say "<p>$_" for @_ },
		  sub { say "<p style=\"color: rgb(222,56,43)\">" . join("<br>", map { $_||"‚èé" } @_) },
		  sub { say "<p style=\"color: rgb(57,181,74)\">" . join("<br>", map { $_||"‚èé" } @_) });
}

# old text, new text, code reference to print a paragraph, print deleted text,
# print added text
sub diff {
  my $self = shift;
  my @old = split(/\n/, shift);
  my @new = split(/\n/, shift);
  my $paragraph = shift;
  my $deleted = shift;
  my $added = shift;
  $self->log(4, "Preparing a diff");
  my $diff = Algorithm::Diff->new(\@old, \@new);
  $diff->Base(1); # line numbers, not indices
  my $result = '';
  while($diff->Next()) {
    next if $diff->Same();
    my $sep = '';
    my ($min1, $max1, $min2, $max2) = $diff->Get(qw(min1 max1 min2 max2));
    if ($diff->Diff == 3) {
      $paragraph->($min1 == $max1 ? "Changed line $min1 from:" : "Changed lines $min1‚Äì$max1 from:");
      $deleted->($diff->Items(1));
      $paragraph->($min2 == $max2 ? "to:" : "to lines $min2‚Äì$max2:");
      $added->($diff->Items(2));
    } elsif ($diff->Diff == 2) {
      $paragraph->($min2 == $max2 ? "Added line $min2:" : "Added lines $min2‚Äì$max2:");
      $added->($diff->Items(2));
    } elsif ($diff->Diff == 1) {
      $paragraph->($min1 == $max1 ? "Deleted line $min1:" : "Deleted lines $min1‚Äì$max1:");
      $deleted->($diff->Items(1));
    }
    # if(not $diff->Items(2)) {
    #   $result .= "%d,%dd%d\n", $diff->Get(qw(Min1 Max1 Max2));
    # } elsif(not $diff->Items(1)) {
    #   $result .= sprintf "%da%d,%d\n", $diff->Get(qw(Max1 Min2 Max2));
    # } else {
    #   $sep = "---\n";
    #   $result .= sprintf "%d,%dc%d,%d\n", $diff->Get(qw(Min1 Max1 Min2 Max2));
    # }
    # $result .= "< $_\n" for $diff->Items(1);
    # $result .= $sep;
    # $result .= "> $_\n" for $diff->Items(2);
  }
  return $result;
}

sub serve_html {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $revision = shift;
  $self->success('text/html');
  $self->log(3, "Serving $id as HTML");
  $self->html_page($host, $space, $id, $revision);
}

sub serve_page_via_http {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $revision = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serving $id as HTML via HTTP");
  say "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r";
  say "Content-Type: text/html\r";
  say "\r";
  $self->html_page($host, $space, $id, $revision);
}

sub html_page {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $revision = shift;
  say "<!DOCTYPE html>";
  say "<html>";
  say "<head>";
  say "<meta charset=\"utf-8\">";
  say "<title>" . $self->quote_html($id) . "</title>";
  say "</head>";
  say "<body>";
  say "<h1>" . $self->quote_html($id) . "</h1>";
  $self->print_html($host, $space, $id, $revision);
  say "</body>";
  say "</html>";
}

sub print_html {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $revision = shift;
  my $port = $self->port();
  my $text = $self->quote_html($self->text($host, $space, $id, $revision));
  my $list;
  my $code;
  for (split /\n/, $text) {
    if (/^```/) {
      if ($code) {
	say "</pre>";
	$code = 0;
      } else {
	say "</ul>" if $list;
	$list = 0;
	say "<pre>";
	$code = 1;
      }
    } elsif ($code) {
      say $_;
    } elsif (/^\* +(.*)/) {
      say "<ul>" unless $list;
      say "<li>$1";
      $list = 1;
    } elsif (my ($url, $text) = /^=&gt;\s*(\S+)\s*(.*)/) { # quoted HTML!
      say "<ul>" unless $list;
      $text ||= $url;
      say "<li><a href=\"$url\">$text</a>";
      $list = 1;
    } elsif (/^(#{1,6})\s*(.*)/) {
      say "</ul>" if $list;
      $list = 0;
      my $level = length($1);
      say "<h$level>$2</h$level>";
    } elsif (/^&gt;\s*(.*)/) { # quoted HTML!
      say "</ul>" if $list;
      $list = 0;
      say "<blockquote>$1</blockquote>";
    } else {
      say "</ul>" if $list;
      $list = 0;
      say "<p>$_";
    }
  }
  say "</pre>" if $code;
  say "</ul>" if $list;
}

sub day {
  my $self = shift;
  my ($sec, $min, $hour, $mday, $mon, $year) = gmtime(shift);
  return sprintf('%4d-%02d-%02d', $year + 1900, $mon + 1, $mday);
}

sub time_of_day {
  my $self = shift;
  my ($sec, $min, $hour, $mday, $mon, $year) = gmtime(shift);
  return sprintf('%02d:%02d UTC', $hour, $min);
}

sub modified {
  my $self = shift;
  my $ts = (stat(shift))[9];
  return $ts;
}

sub serve_history {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $n = shift;
  my $style = shift;
  $self->success();
  $self->log(3, "Serve history for $id");
  say "# Page history for $id";
  if (not $style) { $self->print_link($host, $space, "Colour history", "history/$id/$n/colour") }
  elsif ($style eq "colour") { $self->print_link($host, $space, "Fancy history", "history/$id/$n/fancy") }
  elsif ($style eq "fancy") { $self->print_link($host, $space, "Normal history", "history/$id/$n") }
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  my $log = "$dir/changes.log";
  if (not -e $log) {
    say "No changes.";
    return;
  }
  say "Showing up to $n changes.";
  my $fh = File::ReadBackwards->new($log);
  return unless $self->changes(
    $n,
    sub { say "## " . shift },
    sub { say shift . " by " . $self->colourize(shift, $style) },
    sub { $self->print_link(@_) },
    sub {
    READ:
      return unless $_ = $fh->readline;
      chomp;
      my ($ts, $id_log, $revision, $code) = split(/\x1f/);
      goto READ if $id_log ne $id;
      $ts, $id_log, $revision, $code, $host, $space, 0 });
  say "";
  $self->print_link($host, $space, "More...", "history/" . uri_escape_utf8($id) . "/" . 10 * $n . ($style ? "/$style" : ""));
}

sub serve_history_via_http {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $n = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serve history for $id via HTTP");
  say "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r";
  say "Content-Type: text/html\r";
  say "\r";
  say "<!DOCTYPE html>";
  say "<html>";
  say "<head>";
  say "<meta charset=\"utf-8\">";
  say "<title>Page history for " . $self->quote_html($id) . "</title>";
  say "</head>";
  say "<body>";
  say "<h1>Page history for " . $self->quote_html($id) . "</h1>";
  say "</ul>";
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  my $log = "$dir/changes.log";
  if (not -e $log) {
    say "<p>No changes.";
    return;
  }
  say "<p>Showing up to $n changes.";
  my $fh = File::ReadBackwards->new($log);
  my $first = 1;
  my $more = $self->changes(
    $n,
    sub { say "</ul>" unless $first; $first = 0; say "<h2>" . shift . "</h2>"; say "<ul>"; },
    sub { say "<li>" . shift . " by " . $self->colourize_html(shift) },
    sub {
      my ($host, $space, $title, $id) = @_;
      say " ‚Üí " . $self->link_html($host, $space, $title, $id);
    },
    sub {
    READ:
      return unless $_ = $fh->readline;
      chomp;
      my ($ts, $id_log, $revision, $code) = split(/\x1f/);
      goto READ if $id_log ne $id;
      $ts, $id_log, $revision, $code, $host, $space, 0 });
  say "</ul>";
  return unless $more;
  say "<p>" . $self->link_html($host, $space, "More...", "history/" . uri_escape_utf8($id) . "/" . 10 * $n);
}

sub footer {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $page = shift;
  my $revision = shift||"";
  my @links;
  push(@links, $self->gemini_link($host, $space, "History", "history/$id"));
  push(@links, $self->gemini_link($host, $space, "Raw text", "raw/$id/$revision"));
  push(@links, $self->gemini_link($host, $space, "HTML", "html/$id/$revision"));
  return join("\n", "\n\nMore:", @links, ""); # includes a trailing newline
}

sub serve_page {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $revision = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serve Gemini page $id");
  $self->success();
  say "# $id";
  print $self->text($host, $space, $id, $revision);
  print $self->footer($host, $space, $id, $revision);
}

sub text {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $revision = shift;
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  return read_text "$dir/keep/$id/$revision.gmi" if $revision and -f "$dir/keep/$id/$revision.gmi";
  return read_text "$dir/page/$id.gmi" if -f "$dir/page/$id.gmi";
  return $self->robots() if $id eq "robots" and not $space;
  return "This this revision is no longer available." if $revision;
  return "This page does not yet exist.";
}

sub robots () {
  my $self = shift;
  my $ban = << 'EOT';
User-agent: *
Disallow: raw/*
Disallow: html/*
Disallow: diff/*
Disallow: history/*
Disallow: do/changes*
Disallow: do/all/changes*
Disallow: do/rss
Disallow: do/atom
Disallow: do/new
Disallow: do/more
Disallow: do/match
Disallow: do/search
# allowing do/index!
Crawl-delay: 10
EOT
  my @disallows = $ban =~ /Disallow: (.*)/g;
  return $ban
      . join("\n",
	     map {
	       my $space = $_;
	       join("\n", "# $space", map { "Disallow: $space/$_" } @disallows)
	     } @{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}}) . "\n";
}

sub serve_file {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $revision = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serve file $id");
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  my $file = "$dir/file/$id";
  my $meta = "$dir/meta/$id";
  if (not -f $file) {
    say "40 File not found\r";
    return;
  } elsif (not -f $meta) {
    say "40 Metadata not found\r";
    return;
  }
  my %meta = (map { split(/: /, $_, 2) } read_lines($meta));
  if (not $meta{'content-type'}) {
    say "59 Metadata corrupt\r";
    return;
  }
  $self->success($meta{'content-type'});
  print read_binary($file);
}

sub serve_file_via_http {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $revision = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Serve file $id");
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  my $file = "$dir/file/$id";
  my $meta = "$dir/meta/$id";
  if (not -f $file) {
    say "HTTP/1.1 404 Error\r";
    say "Content-Type: text/plain\r";
    say "\r";
    say "File not found\r";
    return;
  } elsif (not -f $meta) {
    say "HTTP/1.1 500 Error\r";
    say "Content-Type: text/plain\r";
    say "\r";
    say "Metadata not found\r";
    return;
  }
  my %meta = (map { split(/: /, $_, 2) } read_lines($meta));
  if (not $meta{'content-type'}) {
    say "HTTP/1.1 500 Error\r";
    say "Content-Type: text/plain\r";
    say "\r";
    say "Metadata corrupt\r";
    return;
  }
  say "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r";
  say "Content-Type: " . $meta{'content-type'} ."\r";
  say "\r";
  print read_binary($file);
}

sub newest_first {
  my $self = shift;
  my ($date_a, $article_a) = $a =~ /^(\d\d\d\d-\d\d(?:-\d\d)? ?)?(.*)/;
  my ($date_b, $article_b) = $b =~ /^(\d\d\d\d-\d\d(?:-\d\d)? ?)?(.*)/;
  return (($date_b and $date_a and $date_b cmp $date_a)
	  || ($article_a cmp $article_b)
	  # this last one should be unnecessary
	  || ($a cmp $b));
}

sub bogus_hash {
  my $self = shift;
  my $str = shift;
  my $num = unpack("L",B::hash($str)); # 32-bit integer
  my $code = sprintf("%o", $num); # octal is 0-7
  return substr($code, 0, 4); # four numbers
}

sub write_file {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $data = shift;
  my $type = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Writing file $id");
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  my $file = "$dir/file/$id";
  my $meta = "$dir/meta/$id";
  if (-e $file) {
    my $old = read_binary($file);
    if ($old eq $data) {
      $self->log(3, "$id is unchanged");
      say "30 " . $self->link($host, $space, "page/$id") . "\r";
      return;
    }
  }
  my $log = "$dir/changes.log";
  if (not open(my $fh, ">>:encoding(UTF-8)", $log)) {
    $self->log(1, "Cannot write log $log: $!");
    say "59 Unable to write log\r";
    return;
  } else {
    my $peeraddr = $self->{server}->{'peeraddr'};
    say $fh join("\x1f", scalar(time), $id, 0, $self->bogus_hash($peeraddr));
    close($fh);
  }
  mkdir "$dir/file" unless -d "$dir/file";
  eval { write_binary($file, $data) };
  if ($@) {
    say "59 Unable to save $id: $@\r";
    return;
  }
  mkdir "$dir/meta" unless -d "$dir/meta";
  eval { write_text($meta, "content-type: $type\n") };
  if ($@) {
    say "59 Unable to save metadata for $id: $@\r";
    return;
  }
  $self->log(3, "Wrote $id");
  say "30 " . $self->link($host, $space, "file/$id") . "\r";
}

sub write {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $text = shift;
  $self->log(3, "Writing page $id");
  my $dir = $self->wiki_dir($host, $space);
  my $file = "$dir/page/$id.gmi";
  my $revision = 0;
  if (-e $file) {
    my $old = read_text($file);
    if ($old eq $text) {
      $self->log(3, "$id is unchanged");
      say "30 " . $self->link($host, $space, "page/$id") . "\r";
      return;
    }
    mkdir "$dir/keep" unless -d "$dir/keep";
    if (-d "$dir/keep/$id") {
      foreach (read_dir("$dir/keep/$id")) {
	$revision = $1 if m/^(\d+)\.gmi$/ and $1 > $revision;
      }
      $revision++;
    } else {
      mkdir "$dir/keep/$id";
      $revision = 1;
    }
    rename $file, "$dir/keep/$id/$revision.gmi";
  } else {
    my $index = "$dir/index";
    if (not open(my $fh, ">>:encoding(UTF-8)", $index)) {
      $self->log(1, "Cannot write index $index: $!");
      say "59 Unable to write index\r";
      return;
    } else {
      say $fh $id;
      close($fh);
    }
  }
  my $log = "$dir/changes.log";
  if (not open(my $fh, ">>:encoding(UTF-8)", $log)) {
    $self->log(1, "Cannot write log $log: $!");
    say "59 Unable to write log\r";
    return;
  } else {
    my $peeraddr = $self->{server}->{'peeraddr'};
    say $fh join("\x1f", scalar(time), $id, $revision + 1, $self->bogus_hash($peeraddr));
    close($fh);
    $revision = 1;
  }
  mkdir "$dir/page" unless -d "$dir/page";
  eval { write_text($file, $text) };
  if ($@) {
    $self->log(1, "Unable to save $id: $@");
    say "59 Unable to save $id: $@\r";
  } else {
    $self->log(3, "Wrote $id");
    say "30 " . $self->link($host, $space, "page/$id") . "\r";
  }
}

sub write_page {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  my $params = shift;
  if (not $id) {
    $self->log(4, "The URL lacks a page name");
    say "59 The URL lacks a page name\r";
    return;
  }
  if (my $error = $self->valid($id)) {
    $self->log(4, "$id is not a valid page name: $error");
    say "59 $id is not a valid page name: $error\r";
    return;
  }
  my $token = quotemeta($params->{token}||"");
  my @tokens = @{$self->{server}->{wiki_token}};
  push(@tokens, @{$self->{server}->{wiki_space_token}->{$space}})
      if $space and $self->{server}->{wiki_space_token}->{$space};
  $self->log(4, "Valid tokens: @tokens");
  $self->log(4, "Spaces: " . join(", ", keys %{$self->{server}->{wiki_space_token}}));
  if (not $token and @tokens) {
    $self->log(4, "Uploads require a token");
    say "59 Uploads require a token\r";
    return;
  } elsif (not grep(/^$token$/, @tokens)) {
    $self->log(4, "Your token is the wrong token");
    say "59 Your token is the wrong token\r";
    return;
  }
  my $type = $params->{mime};
  my ($main_type) = split(/\//, $type, 1);
  my @types = @{$self->{server}->{wiki_mime_type}};
  if (not $type) {
    $self->log(4, "Uploads require a MIME type");
    say "59 Uploads require a MIME type\r";
    return;
  } elsif ($type ne "text/plain" and not grep(/^$type$/, @types) and not grep(/^$main_type$/, @types)) {
    $self->log(4, "This wiki does not allow $type");
    say "59 This wiki does not allow $type\r";
    return;
  }
  my $length = $params->{size};
  if ($length > $self->{server}->{wiki_page_size_limit}) {
    $self->log(4, "This wiki does not allow more than $self->{server}->{wiki_page_size_limit} bytes per page");
    say "59 This wiki does not allow more than $self->{server}->{wiki_page_size_limit} bytes per page\r";
    return;
  } elsif ($length !~ /^\d+$/) {
    $self->log(4, "You need to send along the number of bytes, not $length");
    say "59 You need to send along the number of bytes, not $length\r";
    return;
  }
  local $/ = undef;
  my $data;
  my $actual = read STDIN, $data, $length;
  if ($actual != $length) {
    $self->log(4, "Got $actual bytes instead of $length");
    say "59 Got $actual bytes instead of $length\r";
    return;
  }
  if ($type ne "text/plain") {
    $self->log(3, "Writing $type to $id, $actual bytes");
    $self->with_lock($host, $space, sub { $self->write_file($host, $space, $id, $data, $type) } );
    return;
  } elsif (utf8::decode($data)) {
    $self->log(3, "Writing $type to $id, $actual bytes");
    $self->with_lock($host, $space, sub { $self->write($host, $space, $id, $data) } );
    return;
  } else {
    $self->log(4, "The text is invalid UTF-8");
    say "59 The text is invalid UTF-8\r";
    return;
  }
}

sub allow_deny_hook {
  my $self = shift;
  my $client = shift;
  # consider adding rate limiting?
  return 1;
}

sub run_extensions {
  my $self = shift;
  my $url = shift;
  my $headers = shift;
  foreach my $sub (@extensions) {
    return 1 if $sub->($self, $url, $headers);
  }
  return;
}

sub run_init {
  my $self = shift;
  for my $sub (@init) {
    $sub->($self);
  }
}

sub valid {
  my $self = shift;
  my $id = shift;
  return 'Page names must not control characters' if $id =~ /[[:cntrl:]]/;
  return 0;
}

sub headers {
  my $self = shift;
  my %result;
  my ($key, $value);
  while (<STDIN>) {
    if (/^(\S+?): (.+?)\r?$/) {
      ($key, $value) = (lc($1), $2);
      $result{$key} = $value;
    } elsif (/^\s+(.+?)\r?$/) {
      $result{$key} .= " $1";
    } else {
      last;
    }
  }
  $result{host} .= ":" . $self->port() if $result{host} and $result{host} !~ /:\d+$/;
  $self->log(4, "HTTP headers: " . join(", ", map { "$_ => '$result{$_}'" } keys %result));
  return \%result;
}

sub wiki_dir {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  my $dir = $self->{server}->{wiki_dir};
  if (@{$self->{server}->{host}} > 1) {
    $dir .= "/$host" ;
    mkdir($dir) unless -d $dir;
  }
  $dir .= "/$space" if $space;
  mkdir($dir) unless -d $dir;
  return $dir;
}

# If we are serving multiple hostnames, we need to check whether the space
# supplied in the URL matches a known hostname/space combo.
sub space {
  my $self = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $space = shift;
  $space = decode_utf8(uri_unescape($space)) if $space;
  if (@{$self->{server}->{host}} > 1) {
    return undef unless $space;
    return $space if grep { $_ eq "$host/$space" } @{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}};
    # else it's an error and we jump out to the eval {} in process_request
    say "40 $host doesn't know about $space\r";
    die "unknown space: $host/$space\n";
  }
  # Without wildcards, just return the space. We already know that the space
  # matched the regular expression of spaces.
  return $space;
}

sub space_dirs {
  my $self = shift;
  my @spaces;
  if (@{$self->{server}->{host}} > 1) {
    push @spaces, @{$self->{server}->{host}};
  } else {
    push @spaces, undef;
  }
  push @spaces, @{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}};
  return @spaces;
}

# A list of links to all the spaces we have. The tricky part here is that we
# want to create appropriate links if we're virtual hosting. Keys are URLs,
# values are names.
sub space_links {
  my $self = shift;
  my $scheme = shift;
  my $host = shift;
  my $port = shift;
  my %spaces;
  if (@{$self->{server}->{host}} > 1) {
    for (@{$self->{server}->{host}}) {
      $spaces{"$scheme://$_:$port/"} = $_;
    }
    for my $space (@{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}}) {
      my ($ahost, $aspace) = split(/\//m, $space, 2);
      $spaces{"$scheme://$ahost:$port/$aspace/"} = $space;
    }
  } elsif (@{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}}) {
    $spaces{"$scheme://$host:$port/"} = "Main space";
    for (sort @{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}}) {
      $spaces{"$scheme://$host:$port/$_/"} = $_;
    }
  }
  return \%spaces;
}

# A regular expression matching wiki spaces in URLs. The tricky part is that we
# must strip the hostnames, as these aren't repeated: for a URL like
# gemini://localhost:1965/alex/ the regular expression must just match 'alex'
# and it's $self->('localhost', 'alex') that will check whether 'alex' is a
# legal space for localhost.
sub space_regex {
  my $self = shift;
  my @spaces;
  if (@{$self->{server}->{host}} > 1) {
    for (@{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}}) {
      my ($space) = /\/(.*)/;
      push(@spaces, $space);
    }
  } elsif (@{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}}) {
    @spaces = @{$self->{server}->{wiki_space}};
  }
  return join("|", map { quotemeta } @spaces);
}

sub process_request {
  my $self = shift;
  eval {
    my $url; # declare here so we can print it on a timeout
    local $SIG{'ALRM'} = sub {
      if ($url) {
	$self->log(1, "Timeout processing $url");
      } else {
	$self->log(1, "Timeout");
      }
      die "Timed Out!\n";
    };
    alarm(10); # timeout
    $self->run_init();
    my $host_regex = $self->host_regex();
    my $port = $self->port();
    my $spaces = $self->space_regex();
    $self->log(4, "Serving ($host_regex)(?::$port)?");
    $self->log(4, "Spaces $spaces");
    $url = <STDIN>; # no loop
    return unless $url;
    $url =~ s/\s+$//g; # no trailing whitespace
    # $url =~ s!^([^/:]+://[^/:]+)(/.*|)$!$1:$port$2!; # add port
    # $url .= '/' if $url =~ m!^[^/]+://[^/]+$!; # add missing trailing slash
    my($scheme, $authority, $path, $query, $fragment) =
	$url =~ m|(?:([^:/?#]+):)?(?://([^/?#]*))?([^?#]*)(?:\?([^#]*))?(?:#(.*))?|;
    my $headers;
    $headers = $self->headers() if $url =~ m!^[a-z]+ .* HTTP/1\.[01]$!i;
    $self->log(3, "Looking at $url");
    my ($host, $space, $id, $n, $style);
    if ($self->run_extensions($url, $headers)) {
      # config file goes first
    } elsif (($host) = $url =~ m!^titan://($host_regex)(?::$port)?!) {
      if (($space) = $path =~ m!^(?:/($spaces))?(?:/raw)?/([^/;=&]+(?:;\w+=[^;=&]+)+)!) {
	my ($id, @params) = split(/[;=&]/, $2);
	$self->write_page($host, $self->space($host, $space), decode_utf8(uri_unescape($id)),
			  {map {decode_utf8(uri_unescape($_))} @params});
      } else {
	$self->log(4, "The path $path is malformed");
	say "59 The path $path is malformed\r";
      }
    } elsif (($host, $space) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/?$!) {
      $self->serve_main_menu($host, $self->space($host, $space));
    } elsif (($host, $space) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/do/more$!) {
      $self->serve_blog($host, $self->space($host, $space));
    } elsif (($host, $space) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/do/index$!) {
      $self->serve_index($host, $self->space($host, $space));
    } elsif (($host, $space) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/do/files$!) {
      $self->serve_files($host, $self->space($host, $space));
    } elsif (($host) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/do/spaces$!) {
      $self->serve_spaces($host, $port);
    } elsif (($host, $space) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/do/data$!) {
      $self->serve_data($host, $self->space($host, $space));
    } elsif ($url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?/do/source$!) {
      $self->success('text/plain; charset=UTF-8');
      seek DATA, 0, 0;
      local $/ = undef; # slurp
      print <DATA>;
    } elsif ($url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/do/match$!) {
      say "10 Find page by name (Perl regex)\r";
    } elsif ($query and ($host, $space) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/do/match\?!) {
      $self->serve_match($host, map {decode_utf8(uri_unescape($_))} $space, $query);
    } elsif ($url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/do/search$!) {
      say "10 Find page by content (Perl regex)\r";
    } elsif ($query and ($host, $space) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/do/search\?!) {
      $self->serve_search($host, $self->space($host, $space), decode_utf8(uri_unescape($query))); # search terms include spaces
    } elsif ($url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/do/new$!) {
      say "10 New page\r";
    } elsif ($query and ($host, $space) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/do/new\?!) {
      # no URI escaping required
      if ($space) {
	say "30 gemini://$host:$port/$space/raw/$query\r";
      } else {
	say "30 gemini://$host:$port/raw/$query\r";
      }
    } elsif (($host, $space, $n, $style) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/do/changes(?:/(\d+))?(?:/(colour|fancy))?$!) {
      $self->serve_changes($host, $self->space($host, $space), $n||100, $style);
    } elsif (($host, $n, $style) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?/do/all/changes(?:/(\d+))?(?:/(colour|fancy))?$!) {
      $self->serve_all_changes($host, $n||100, $style);
    } elsif (($host, $space) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/do/rss$!) {
      $self->serve_rss($host, $self->space($host, $space));
    } elsif (($host, $space) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/do/atom$!) {
      $self->serve_atom($host, $self->space($host, $space));
    } elsif ($url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?/robots.txt$!) {
      $self->serve_raw(undef, "robots");
    } elsif (($host, $space, $id, $n, $style) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/history/([^/]*)(?:/(\d+))?(?:/(colour|fancy))?$!) {
      $self->serve_history($host, $self->space($host, $space), decode_utf8(uri_unescape($id)), $n||10, $style);
    } elsif (($host, $space, $id, $n, $style) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/diff/([^/]*)(?:/(\d+))?(?:/(colour))?$!) {
      $self->serve_diff($host, $self->space($host, $space), decode_utf8(uri_unescape($id)), $n, $style);
    } elsif (($host, $space, $id, $n) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/raw/([^/]*)(?:/(\d+))?$!) {
      $self->serve_raw($host, $self->space($host, $space), decode_utf8(uri_unescape($id)), $n);
    } elsif (($host, $space, $id, $n) = $url =~ m!^gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/html/([^/]*)(?:/(\d+))?$!) {
      $self->serve_html($host, $self->space($host, $space), decode_utf8(uri_unescape($id)), $n);
    } elsif (($host, $space, $id, $n) = $url =~ m!gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/page/([^/]+)(?:/(\d+))?$!) {
      $self->serve_page($host, $self->space($host, $space), decode_utf8(uri_unescape($id)), $n);
    } elsif (($host, $space, $id) = $url =~ m!gemini://($host_regex)(?::$port)?(?:/($spaces))?/file/([^/]+)?$!) {
      $self->serve_file($host, $self->space($host, $space), decode_utf8(uri_unescape($id)));
    } elsif (($space) = $url =~ m!^GET (?:(?:/($spaces)/?)?|/) HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      $self->serve_main_menu_via_http($host, $self->space($host, $space));
    } elsif (($space, $id, $n) = $url =~ m!^GET (?:/($spaces))?/page/([^/]*)(?:/(\d+))? HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      $self->serve_page_via_http($host, $self->space($host, $space), decode_utf8(uri_unescape($id)), $n);
    } elsif (($space, $id, $n) = $url =~ m!^GET (?:/($spaces))?/file/([^/]*)(?:/(\d+))? HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      $self->serve_file_via_http($host, $self->space($host, $space), decode_utf8(uri_unescape($id)), $n);
    } elsif (($space, $id, $n) = $url =~ m!^GET (?:/($spaces))?/history/([^/]*)(?:/(\d+))? HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      $self->serve_history_via_http($host, $self->space($host, $space), decode_utf8(uri_unescape($id)), $n||10);
    } elsif (($space, $id, $n) = $url =~ m!^GET (?:/($spaces))?/diff/([^/]*)(?:/(\d+))? HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      $self->serve_diff_via_http($host, $self->space($host, $space), decode_utf8(uri_unescape($id)), $n||10);
    } elsif (($space, $id, $n) = $url =~ m!^GET (?:/($spaces))?/raw/([^/]*)(?:/(\d+))? HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      $self->serve_raw_via_http($host, $self->space($host, $space), decode_utf8(uri_unescape($id)), $n);
    } elsif ($url =~ m!^GET /robots.txt HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      $self->serve_raw_via_http(undef, 'robots');
    } elsif (($space, $id, $n) = $url =~ m!^GET (?:/($spaces))?/do/changes(?:/(\d+))? HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      $self->serve_changes_via_http($host, $self->space($host, $space), $n||100);
    } elsif (($space, $n) = $url =~ m!^GET /do/all/changes(?:/(\d+))? HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      $self->serve_all_changes_via_http($host, $n||100);
    } elsif (($space, $id, $n) = $url =~ m!^GET (?:/($spaces))?/do/index HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      $self->serve_index_via_http($host, $self->space($host, $space));
    } elsif (($space, $id, $n) = $url =~ m!^GET (?:/($spaces))?/do/files HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      $self->serve_files_via_http($host, $self->space($host, $space));
    } elsif (($space, $id, $n) = $url =~ m!^GET (?:/($spaces))?/do/spaces HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      $self->serve_spaces_via_http($host, $port);
    } elsif (($space, $id, $n) = $url =~ m!^GET (?:/($spaces))?/do/rss HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      $self->serve_rss_via_http($host, $self->space($host, $space));
    } elsif (($space, $id, $n) = $url =~ m!^GET (?:/($spaces))?/do/atom HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      $self->serve_atom_via_http($host, $self->space($host, $space));
    } elsif ($url =~ m!^GET (?:/($spaces))?/do/source HTTP/1\.[01]$!
	     and ($host) = $headers->{host} =~ m!^($host_regex)(?::$port)$!) {
      say "HTTP/1.1 200 OK\r";
      say "Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8\r";
      say "\r";
      seek DATA, 0, 0;
      local $/ = undef; # slurp
      print <DATA>;
    } else {
      $self->log(3, "Unknown $url");
      say "40 Don't know how to handle $url\r";
    }
    $self->log(4, "Done");
  };
  $self->log(1, "Error: $@") if $@;
}

__DATA__
